# Lucas Tomlin

# Similarities

> The the CMS's that I am comparing are Hugo, WordPress, and Squarespace. Some of the key components that these three have in common is that they all can be used to make websites for busnisess that can keep track of the orders that are produced. Both Squarespace and Wordpress offer a delayed post option where the post doesn't have to be made directly at that time but can be posted later. Hugo and wordpress are both code based as well as have repository options. 

# Differences

> There is a lot more differences with these websites that there are similarities. A huge difference is the fact that wordpress and hugo are code based where they give you a little more control and versitlity of how you want your website to look and be set up. With this being said Hugo's web building experience is github based and absolutley free with the exception of a few themes where wordpress has a free version but to do the most with the CMS you have to pay. Squarespace is similar where you get a watered down version of the site builder with the free option but if you pay the options become a lot more expansive and more tools are opened up to you. To add to this both hugo and wordpress is open souced where as squarespace is a closed source option. When it comes to presentation, hugo and wordpress uses code to get an otions that are very theme and template based where as squarespace has themes and templates but focus on a drag and drop system that makes input much easier but that comes at the expnse of not having nearly as much control over the content that is being produced. This especially shown in the free option of the CMS's. Overall Hugo is a very good option if you prefer using the coding tools of github, Wordpress is a very good option if you want ease of use with having the option to use third party coding options, and a partial drag and drop function, and lastly squarespace is a good option to be used if you are looking for very little work but very little freedom to build CMS's. 
